# Stock Standard Deveation Test
This project analyzes historical stock/crypto/index price data on a user defined timeframe calculating the daily percentage change and performs the three most common normality tests to see if the data folows the normal distribution curve or not. It uses the `yfinance` library to fetch data based on the user's input. The script calculates the daily percentage change and plots a histogram to visualize the distribution, overlaid with a normal distribution curve, as well as calculating outliers beyond two standard deviations from the mean.

The script performs normality tests to see if the data follows the normal distribution. The `Shapiro-Wilk` test checks overall normality, and the `Kolmogorov-Smirnov` test (K-S Test) checks on how the data matches normal distribution using its mean and standard deviation. For both tests, a p-value greater than 0.05 mean that the test failed to reject the null hypothesis H0 and suggests that the data follows normal distribution, while a lower value indicates the opposite. A `Q-Q plot` (the last normality test) provides a visual confirmation of how well the data fits the normal distribution.

This entire analysis could helps traders see the volatility and potentially market patterns. It also provides metrics like mean, standard deviation, and the frequency of extreme movements, giving a clearer picture of how a particular stock/crypto/index behaves in the market. The initial idea behind this project was to calculate the value of one standard deviation and trade long and short based on that number. Now, this value in and off itself is obviously not enogh to make a trade based on, but it is definately a tool that could be utilized in vatious alorithmic trading strategies.
